Questions:

1. Using proper pseudo-code, describe the following primitive algorithms:

Making coffee:

PICK coffee beans;
PLACE in coffee machine;
FILL coffee maker with two cups of water;
PLACE cofee mug under cofee machine to collect coffee;
START cofee machine;
IF cofee mug is full OR cofee brewing is complete,
 REMOVE mug;
 POUR two tea-spoons of milk;
 RETURN mug;

Washing dishes:

PLACE dirty utensils in sink;
FILL sink with hot water;
ADD dish soap to hot water;
WHILE there are dirty utensils in the sink,
 PICK each utensil and scrub with wash-cloth,
 RINSE utensil in running water,
 PLACE utensil in dish rack to dry;
DRAIN sink water

Washing clothes:

GRAB laundry from laundry basket
WHILE there are clothes in the basket,
 SEPARATE white clothes,
 PUT clothes in bag one,
 PUT other clothes in a separate bag (two);
PUT clothes from bag one in washing machine one;
PUT clothes from bag two in washing maching two;
IF washing machine wash one or two is compelete THEN
 REMOVE clothes from washing machines;
 PUT clothes in dryer;
IF dryer is compelete THEN
 REMOVE clothes from washing machines;

2. As with the knot algorithm, there may be more than one way to solve the problem. It is essential to try to pick the best algorithm for a situation. 
Name three companies who created an algorithm that made them successful, e.g., Google's search algorithm. It doesn't need to be a tech example (such as a recipe or manufacturing a product).
Google's algorithm produces more relevant results than other search engines; what about each of your cases make them stand out?

a. Amazon's recommendation algorithm: Amazon's ability to predict the shopper's buying behavious and next most likely item that the shopper will purchase. 
Apparently 35% of purchases are driven through the recommendation engine's suggestions such as 'item's usually bought togther'.

b. Uber's pricing algorithm: While the convenience of hiring a cab via phone is one of the main drivers behind Ubder's success, it's pricing model is what has made uber seem reasonable 
compared to cabs and has made its use ubiquitous. The algorithm balances supply and demand to generate a value for the uber ride, which the user can assess and make a decision on before 
taking an uber.

c. Netflix's recommendation algorithm: More that 80% of shows and movies watched by Netflix's subscriber based are driven by the recommendation provided by the company's algorithm. 
Netflix is able to study user behaviour to create highly specific genres and recommend them to users.   

3. Hypothesize about what constitutes an efficient algorithm versus an inefficient algorithm.

Efficiency relates to arriving at desired result through optimal use of resources at hand. The main resources that algorithms use would be memory space and time required to run.
So an efficient algorithm would be one that requires the least memory space, takes the leat amount of time to execute while still delivering the desired outcome.




